1. git config -l
➡️ Displays all Git configuration settings currently applied (both global and local).

2. git config --global user.name "user name"
➡️ Sets your username globally for Git; this name will be attached to all your commits.

3. git config --global user.email "xyz@gmail.com"
➡️ Sets your email globally for Git; this email is used to identify you in commits.

4. git config --global color.ui auto
➡️ Enables automatic coloring of Git output in the terminal for better readability.


5. git --version
➡️ Shows the currently installed Git version on your system.

6. git init
➡️ Initializes a new Git repository in your current folder.

7.git status
➡️ Shows the current state of your Git repository.

8. git add "file name"
➡️ Adds a specific file to the staging area.

9. git add .
➡️ Adds all files (new, modified, and deleted) in the current directory to the staging area.

10. git add abc*
➡️ Adds all files whose names start with abc to the staging area.

11. git reset "file name"
➡️ Removes the specified file from the staging area.

12. git rm --cached "file name"
➡️ Removes the file from Git tracking, but keeps it in your local folder.

13. git diff
➡️ Shows the differences between your working files and the last committed version.


14. git diff "file name"
➡️ Shows the changes made in a specific file compared to the last committed version.

15. git commit -m "msg"
➡️ Saves the staged changes to the repository with a message.

16. git commit -a -m "msg"
➡️ Commits all modified and deleted tracked files with a message, without using git add.

17. git log
➡️ Shows the commit history of the repository.

18. git log -p
➡️ Shows the commit history along with the changes (diff) made in each commit.

19. git reflog
➡️ Shows a log of all recent actions (like commits, checkouts, resets) performed in your local repository.

20. git show "commit hash"
➡️ Shows the commit history starting from the specified commit.

21. git rm "file name"
➡️ Deletes the file from your working directory and removes it from Git tracking.

22. git reset HEAD "file name"
➡️ Removes the specified file from the staging area (unstages it).

23. git reset HEAD -p
➡️ Interactively removes parts of changes from the staging area.

24. git revert HEAD
➡️ Creates a new commit that undoes the changes made in the latest commit.

25. git revert "commit hash"
➡️ Creates a new commit that undoes the changes made by the specified commit.

26. git tag "tag name"
➡️ Creates a tag for the current commit.

27. git checkout "tag name"
➡️ Switches your repository to the state of the specified tag.

28. git tag "tagname" <commit-hash>
➡️ Creates a tag for a specific commit (not just the latest one).

29. git tag --list
➡️ Displays all the tags in your repository.

30. git tag -d "tag name"
➡️ Deletes the specified tag from your local repository.

31. git branch
➡️ Lists all branches in your repository.

32. git branch "branch name"
➡️ Creates a new branch with the given name.

33. git checkout "branchname"
➡️ Switches to the specified branch.

34. git checkout -b "branchname"
➡️ Creates a new branch and immediately switches to it.

35. git branch -d "branch name"
➡️ Deletes the specified branch.

36. git merge "feature-name"
➡️ Merges the specified branch into your current branch.

37.git rebase "branch"
➡️ Moves (reapplies) your current branch’s commits on top of another branch.

38. git stash
➡️ Temporarily saves your uncommitted changes and cleans your working directory.

39. git stash pop
➡️ Applies the most recent stashed changes and removes them from the stash list.
